IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
IBM’s revenue growth, together with a good portfolio mix and yield from 
our productivity initiatives generated strong margin, profit and free cash 
flow performance. Operating gross margin expanded 160 basis points and 
operating pre-tax margin expanded 170 basis points. Within that PTI 
margin, we absorbed a year-to-year currency impact of over 150 basis 
points. Despite that headwind, our margin expansion was broad based, 
with improvements in every business segment.   
 
Driving efficiency and productivity has always been part of our operating 
and financial models. These ongoing productivity initiatives enable 
reinvestment in the business, increase financial flexibility and contribute 
to margin expansion. Our activities range from simplifying our application 
environment to digitally transforming our business processes by applying 
AI at scale. We are ahead of pace to achieve our target of $2 billion in 
annual run-rate savings by the end of 2024. While there is still more to do, 
I am pleased with our progress. The combination of our revenue and 
margin performance yielded strong profit growth. Operating pre-tax profit 
was up 17% to $2.3 billion.   
 
We generated $1.7 billion of free cash flow in the quarter, and over $5 
billion year to date, which is up $1 billion versus last year. Free cash flow 
growth through the first three quarters was driven primarily by cash 
sourced from our operating profit performance. We also had working 
capital efficiencies driven by solid collections. These growth drivers were 
partially offset by higher performance-based compensation payments 
earlier in the year. 
 
In terms of cash uses, year to date we spent about $5 billion on 
acquisitions and returned four-and-a-half billion dollars to shareholders 
through dividends.  
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Our resulting cash balance at the end of September was $11 billion. That’s 
up over $2 billion from year end, but with the acquisition of Apptio in the 
third quarter, cash is down over $5 billion from June. Our debt balance is 
now $55 billion, also down from June. 
 
Putting this all together, our business fundamentals are solid, with 
sustainable revenue growth, margin expansion, solid cash generation and 
a strong balance sheet with financial flexibility to support our business 
into the future.   
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Software 
 
Turning to the segments, Software revenue grew 6%, with contribution 
from Hybrid Platform & Solutions and Transaction Processing. This 
performance reflects growth in both our transactional revenue and our 
recurring revenue base, which is about 80% of our annual software 
revenue. 
 
In Hybrid Platform & Solutions, revenue was up 7% with growth across 
Red Hat, Automation and Data & AI, as we execute our platform-based 
approach to hybrid cloud and AI. Red Hat revenue was up 8%. We 
continue to deliver good growth in OpenShift and Ansible, both gaining 
share again this quarter. Clients are committing to our hybrid cloud 
approach with annual bookings up 14% in the quarter. This includes 
double-digit growth across RHEL, OpenShift and Ansible, partially offset 
by headwinds in consumption-based services. IT and business automation 
are top client priorities, and we’ve been investing to capture the 
opportunity. This quarter, our Automation revenue grew 13%, with 
pervasive growth across all business areas. We had strength in AIOps and 
Management driven by good performance in Instana, Turbonomic and now 
Apptio as clients look to optimize business outcomes and boost 
productivity. Data & AI revenue was up 6%. Growth areas include Data 
Fabric and Customer Care as enterprise clients are both preparing for and 
adopting generative AI solutions, leveraging watsonx. We also grew in 
Asset & Supply Chain Management as we help enterprises run sustainable 
operations. Security revenue declined 3%. We delivered growth in security 
software driven by Data Security and Identity & Access Management. This 
was more than offset by declines in managed security services. Looking 
across these businesses, our Hybrid Platform & Solutions ARR has grown 
to $14 billion, up 7% since last year.  
 
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
In Transaction Processing, revenue was up 5%. Throughout this year 
we’ve been talking about how the success of the last couple of zSystems 
cycles is driving demand for this mission-critical software. This, together 
with price increases, contributed to year-to-date growth in both recurring 
and transactional software revenue in Transaction Processing. 
 
Moving to profit for the Software segment, we expanded gross and pre-tax 
margins. Our pre-tax margin was up 120 basis points, even while 
absorbing over two points of impact from currency. We continued to 
deliver operating leverage driven by our revenue scale and mix this 
quarter. 
  
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Consulting 
 
Our Consulting revenue was up 5% with growth across all three lines of 
business and geographies. With another quarter of strong signings, as I 
said, our trailing twelve-month book-to-bill ratio is now over 1.15. Clients 
continue to prioritize transformation projects that enable cost savings and 
productivity. These results are a proof point that we are well positioned to 
meet these needs in today’s complex environment.  
 
IBM’s focused hybrid cloud and AI strategy has become even more of a 
differentiator as clients’ interest in generative AI continues to ramp. We 
are helping clients understand how AI can be used to automate tasks, 
make better decisions with speed and improve customer experiences. 
We’ve made a series of AI announcements over the last few months 
demonstrating continued advancement of our strategic partnerships. We 
are providing clients with the opportunity to accelerate their 
transformation and deploy generative AI responsibly, whether that be 
leveraging AI capabilities of IBM, our partners, or a combination.   
 
Today, our strategic partnerships account for about 40% of Consulting 
revenue and have continued to grow double digits across revenue and 
signings. In aggregate, our hyperscaler partnership revenue was up over 
40% and signings essentially doubled year to year. Additionally, our Red 
Hat practice, which helps clients optimize how they build, deploy and 
manage applications for a hybrid cloud environment has continued to 
grow at a double-digit rate, with over $1 billion of signings in the quarter. 
 
All of what I’ve just mentioned – from market demand, to how we’re 
positioned and partnering, to our investments to drive growth – is 
reflected in our overall Consulting revenue performance. You can see that 
play out across our three lines of business. In Business Transformation, 
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
revenue grew 5%, again led by data and technology transformations 
including AI and analytics-focused projects. Finance and supply chain 
transformations also contributed to the growth. In Technology Consulting, 
revenue was up 1%. Growth in cloud-based application development and 
modernization work was partially offset by declines in on-prem 
application-focused projects. In Application Operations, revenue grew 
7%, driven by both cloud application management and platform 
engineering services. In platform engineering, we help clients design an 
application environment that runs securely and smoothly at scale.  
 
Moving to Consulting profit, we expanded gross margin 150 basis points. 
Pre-tax margin expanded 40 basis points to just over 10%. Our year-to-
year margin performance reflects productivity actions we’ve taken, 
mitigated by increased labor costs and about a point of pre-tax margin 
impact from currency.  
  
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Infrastructure  
 
Moving to the Infrastructure segment, revenue was down 3%. Hybrid 
Infrastructure revenue was flat, while Infrastructure Support declined 7%. 
 
Within Hybrid Infrastructure, zSystems grew 9% in a seasonally smaller 
revenue quarter. Z16 revenue remains well ahead of prior cycles after six 
quarters of availability. The program strength reflects both growing 
enterprise workload requirements and the economic value at scale of the 
platform in traditional processing and Linux consolidation. In fact, 
installed MIPs capacity for Linux on Z has grown more than 4-fold over the 
last decade. Clients continue to value the security, resiliency and hybrid 
cloud capabilities of the zSystems platform. Distributed Infrastructure 
revenue was down 6% as compared to a strong growth in last year of 21% 
as we introduced innovation across Storage and Power10. This quarter, 
we had growth in Power offset by declines in Storage.  
 
In the Infrastructure segment we had strong gross and pre-tax margin 
performance. Pre-tax margin expanded 350 basis points, reflecting 
benefits from portfolio mix with our zSystems performance and 
productivity, while absorbing over a point of impact from currency. 
 
  
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Summary 
 
Now let me bring it back up to the IBM level to talk about our expectations 
before we go to Q&A. Just about two years ago, we introduced Today’s 
IBM, a more focused business with a platform-based approach to hybrid 
cloud and AI. Since then, we’ve continued to invest organically and 
inorganically, bring new products and innovation to market, expand our 
ecosystem and our talent base and drive productivity across our business. 
The result is a business that addresses today’s client needs, with a 
stronger financial profile. Our third quarter performance reinforces this 
progress with three-and-a-half percent revenue growth, gross and pre-tax 
margin expansion and strong free cash flow generation. 
 
Now, with three quarters of the year behind us, we are holding our full-
year view of our two primary financial metrics, revenue growth and free 
cash flow. We continue to expect constant currency revenue growth of 
three to five percent, and free cash flow of about ten-and-a-half billion 
dollars – that’s up $1.2 billion over last year. We’ve had solid revenue 
performance all year in our growth vectors of Software and Consulting. We 
still expect Software revenue growth at the high end of its mid-single digit 
model, and Consulting revenue in the six to eight percent range. 
Infrastructure revenue of course, reflects product cycle dynamics. In total, 
with one quarter to go, it’s prudent to assume the low end of IBM’s three-
to-five percent range.  
 
We are making great progress in our productivity initiatives. The work we 
are doing to digitally transform our business not only makes us more 
nimble by simplifying and streamlining our processes and operations, but 
it also frees up spend for reinvestment, provides financial flexibility and 
delivers operating leverage. This contributes to solid margin and free cash 
flow performance. We continue to expect about a half-a-point of operating 
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
pre-tax margin improvement, and we see a mid-teens tax rate for the year. 
Our free cash flow performance has been driven primarily from our profit 
performance. Through the first three quarters, we’re up a billion dollars 
year to year, and we’ve delivered nearly 50% of our full-year expectation, 
which is ahead of our historical attainment. While, as always, we are 
reliant on a seasonally strong fourth quarter, we’re on track to achieve 
about ten-and-a-half billion dollars for the year.  
 
As I look specifically at the fourth quarter, with the recent currency 
movements, we now see currency to be neutral to a one-point headwind 
to revenue growth. That’s nearly $600 million worse than 90 days ago. I’d 
expect constant currency revenue growth in the fourth quarter to be 
similar to the third. That’s despite a tough compare from last year’s strong 
ELA contribution in Software and the large z16 transactional performance 
in Infrastructure. This demonstrates continued momentum in our 
underlying business. 
 
Bring it all together, we’ve clearly got a higher-growth, higher-value 
business with strong cash generation – a business well-positioned for the 
future. Arvind and I are now happy to take your questions. Patricia, let’s 
get started.   
  IBM 3Q23 Earnings Prepared Remarks 
Closing 
 
Thank you, Jim. Before we begin the Q&A, I’d like to mention a couple of 
items. First, supplemental information is provided at the end of this 
presentation. And then second, I’ll try this one last time, but I’d ask you to 
refrain from multi-part questions to allow time for more people to 
participate. Operator, let’s please open it up for questions.